You can find biblical foundation as we sing the wonderful, great hymns of the faith.
And that's certainly helpful as we are reminded of the truth of the word of God.
Genesis chapter number 11 this evening, Genesis chapter number 11.
And we'll begin looking in chapter, verse number 10 of chapter 11 and going down through
the end of the chapter this evening.
And as we look at this passage of scripture, of course on Sunday evenings for a while now
we have studied through the book of Genesis.
We've not done it consistently every single Sunday evening.
But this is our 35th lesson through the book of Genesis and lesson number 35.
And we'll be finishing up the 11th chapter this evening.
As you're aware through our study, we have understood that the book of Genesis is under
attack regularly.
In fact, these first 11 chapters of the book of Genesis provide not only instruction for
us with regard to these things of the beginnings and of course creation and what have you.
But we find that these truths that are provided to us, we look at the fact of creation, but
we also look at the truth of civilization.
We understand that the book is of great foundational significance and importance for us as the
people of God.
As I've mentioned often throughout the study of the book of Genesis that we have found
that the truth of the book of Genesis and creation is not exclusive to just the book
of Genesis.
We find it throughout the whole of scripture.
And as we interpret scripture with scripture and we go through and we begin to see how
foundational this book is for our faith.
Of course, we understand there are great mountaintop truths that are provided to us in Genesis
1 through 11.
As we think about the track of civilization and we'll be looking at some of that this
evening.
And so we are reminded that in Genesis chapter number four, we read about the descendants
of Cain.
We came to Genesis chapter number five and we had the opportunity as the beginning of
the chapter starts about this is the book of the generations of Adam.
And we find that the lineage is given to us from Adam through Noah, of course through
his child, Adam's son, Seth.
And we trace that in Genesis chapter number five and we deal with the great flood in chapter
number six and seven and eight and then of course after the flood and the Noahic covenant
as it is described to us in Genesis chapter number nine.
And we come to Genesis chapter number 10 and in Genesis chapter number 10 we are given
the generations of the son of Noah, the sons of Japheth, the sons of Ham, the sons of Shem.
And we read of that in Genesis chapter number 10 and then we enter into the 11th chapter
and as we studied in our previous message, we see in verses one through nine the record
of the Tower of Babel and how that God confounded their languages and they were dispersed around
the world.
And we found that it was of note and we began entering into the portion of scripture that
we'll begin, that we'll study this evening, that once again in chapter number 11 in verses
10 and following, we have the opportunity once again to read of these are the generations
of Shem.
And remember, this is given to us back in chapter number 10 in verses 21 through 32
and yet we find that it's given to us again.
We could ask this question, why?
I believe that as we look at the whole of scripture and we see how that God is giving
us the truth with regard to civilization and the way in which the civilization would move
forward and all that's taking place, we find that God is narrowing in and the focus becomes
Abraham.
Of course, Abram as we begin to be introduced to him, of course his name will later be changed
to Abraham.
But we find that tracing the ancestry to Abram, why is that so significant?
You remember that Shem, according to Genesis 9 in verse number 26, one of the things that
was said when Noah gave this message with regard to Shem, he said, it blessed be the
Lord God of Shem and Canaan shall be his servant.
He spoke about the fact that through Shem, the Semitics, the truth of the messianic
line and that the lineage of Jesus Christ, our Messiah, would now come in full focus.
And as we come again to chapter number 11 and begin to read this record of the generations
of the son of Shem, we find that it's in order to trace the ancestry to Abraham and we find
that of course he is the father of the nation of the Hebrews and you look at all of that
with the nation of Israel and we'll mention several things this evening, even as we look
at some of the New Testament truth.
And so as we dig in this evening and we see that the lens is zooming, the lens of scripture
is zooming in and we'll primarily focus upon the life and descendants of Abraham, of course
the ancestors of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
It's important to note, and I've said this in many different passages of scripture, we
see this truth revealed to us that often when you see the attacks and the constant warfare
that takes place against the nation of Israel throughout its history, you find that it's
that war, that spiritual warfare that we deal with, right?
We wrestle not against flesh and blood and as we study the Old Testament, we see what's
happening, we see these many various groups of people that would attack the people of
God, we find that it was the enemy, Satan himself, that's trying to destroy the line
of Messiah.
That's the ultimate goal.
The ultimate goal of Satan was to destroy the line of Messiah.
He was not successful, of course, because we know that God is greater.
In Jesus Christ, the Messiah came as was promised and he lived a perfect and sinless life.
He went to the cross of Calvary, by the way, Satan would do everything within his power
to prevent that from happening, and we find that, of course, Christ went to the cross,
he was buried, he rose in victory, and we find that he will come again.
And so the lens of scripture, beginning here at the latter part of chapter 11, begins to
zoom in upon Abraham and his descendants, and really from this point throughout the
remainder of the scriptures.
Notice with me, if you're taking notes, number one, very simply, the generations of Shem.
In verses 10 through 26, the Bible gives us the record of the generations of Shem.
Now I want you to take some notes, maybe jot them in your Bible or you have a notepad there.
I want to help us create, if we can, a timeline of how long these things happened after the
flood.
Notice with me that as we read of the generations of Shem, that it will specifically give us
noted dates as to how long after the flood these things happened, and it helps us to
create that timeline and understand these things that are taking place.
In verse number 10, these are the generations of Shem.
Shem wasn't 100 years old, and you notice it says in our facts ad, two years after the
flood.
Now we understand, the scriptures have been clear, we've mentioned it many times throughout
our study, that there were only eight human beings that got off of the ark.
Amen?
Noah, Mrs. Noah, his three sons, and his three daughter-in-laws.
Eight human beings.
That's all that came off of the ark, and we find that by them was the whole earth overspread.
Again, this is mentioned a couple of times in chapter 9, again in chapter number 10,
and we see here that the first of the children of Shem to be mentioned is Arphaxad, and he's
born two years after the flood.
The Bible says in Shem, verse 11, lived after Arphaxad 500 years, and begat sons and daughters.
Though the details of all of those 500 years are not given to us, in like manner, as the
scriptures tell us at the end of chapter 9, that Noah lived another 350 years, but there's
really no reference and no information given to us with regard to those 350 years of his
life.
We come to verse 12, and Arphaxad lived five and 30 years, and begat Selah.
And so this, verse number 12, is 37 years after the flood.
We come to verse 13, and Arphaxad lived after he begat Selah 403 years, begat sons and daughters,
and Selah lived 30 years, and begat Eber.
So in verse 14, we now are 67 years after the flood.
67 years have passed, and we find that Eber is born.
Verse 15, Selah lived after he begat Eber 403 years, and begat sons and daughters, and
Eber lived four and 30 years, and begat Peleg.
So this is 101 years after the flood.
I mentioned this last time in our previous study, the Tower of Babel, that back in chapter
number 10, in verse number 25, when it speaks about Peleg, it says, in his days was the
earth divided.
And so it would appear, as we look at that division that is mentioned in chapter number
11, with regard to the Tower of Babel, that the Tower of Babel incident happened just
about 100 years after the flood.
101 years is when Peleg was born, 101 years after the flood.
Verse 17, and Eber lived after he begat Peleg 430 years, and begat sons and daughters, and
Peleg lived 30 years, and begat Rehu.
And so here we're at now, in verse 18, we're at 131 years after the flood.
I know this is kind of classroom-ish, bear with me, we're going to get through it, amen?
And it's good for, listen, God's got a detail.
So it's good for us to see how he provides this to us and we understand what's taking
place.
Verse 19, and Peleg lived after he begat Rehu 209 years and begat sons and daughters.
Rehu, according to verse 20, lived two and 30 years and begat Sarug.
This is now 163 years after the flood.
Rehu lived after he begat Sarug 207 years and begat sons and daughters.
And Sarug lived 30 years and begat Nahor.
According to verse number 22, if you add it all up and you do the math and you do it
properly, you're at 193 years after the flood.
Verse 23, Sarug lived after he begat Nahor 200 years and begat sons and daughters.
And Nahor lived nine and 20 years and begat Terah.
We are now at 222 years after the flood.
222 years have passed since Noah and his wife, his three sons, and three daughter-in-laws
came off of that arc, 222 years.
We find that the Bible says that Nahor lived nine and 20 years, begat Terah.
In verse 24, he lived after he begat Terah 119 years and begat sons and daughters.
Now it's interesting to note that in verse number 25, it says that Nahor lived after
he begat Terah 119 years, begat sons and daughters.
And so as we think about this, if you look back in verse number 11, it says, and Shem
lived after he begat Arphaxad, how many years?
500 years.
But now by the time you get down to Nahor and you see what's happening is he lived 119
years after he begat his son, Terah.
And it's interesting for you find that he was, according to verse number 24, he was
nine and 20 years when he begat Terah, and you understand that Shem was 100 years old.
And so you think about, as we find here, really an interesting note with regard to the longevity
of mankind pre-flood and post-flood.
And you understand that all of those events that took place during the flood, we mentioned
about the catastrophic events that took place in Genesis chapter number 6 and 7 and 8 as
we studied about the flood and we understood those things that were taking place and we
see that there is a direct impact on all of the earth and we see that impact even upon
the longevity of mankind.
Of course, as we mentioned, that you look in some of the beginnings of these great patriarchs
and you see how many years they lived and you eventually get to, you know, from 950
years living to be that age to Joseph at the end of Genesis, 110, and Joshua, 110,
and of course Moses, speaking of the fact that three score and ten, if by reason of
strength, four score, 70 or 80 years, you look, you see that in Psalm 90.
And so we find here that there is an interesting note with regard to, yes, we're seeing the
generations of Shem and we're following the line, we get to Terah in verse number 24,
and of course he's the father of Abram, we'll continue there in just a moment, but we do
see an obvious decrease in the life expectancy of these individuals.
We come to now looking at not only the generations of Shem, but notice the generations of Terah.
Really beginning in verse number 26, the Bible says, and Terah lived 70 years and began Abram,
Nahor, and Haran.
Now, this is 292 years after the flood.
When it's mentioned here in verse number 26, again, if you add all of the years up and
all of this that is provided to us, we come to 292 years after the flood.
It says in verse number 27, now these are the generations of Terah.
Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran, and Haran begat Lot.
I'm going to pause there just for a moment, and I want to deal with just something here
to look at what's taking place as we kind of add up some numbers and look at what's
going on.
Of course there are some, and I'll be completely transparent with you, I'm going to give you
a position that is not 100%, I guess, consistent across the board, maybe that's a good way
to put it.
But I believe when you compare Scripture with Scripture, you kind of look at what's taking
place with regard to the ages of these individuals.
I understand where some come with the date that they come to with regard to these things,
but we find that it says that Terah lived 70 years and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
Some, I'm not going to take this approach this evening, some would give the idea that
Abram, Nahor, and Haran were triplets, and they were all born when Terah was 70.
However, again, when we compare Scripture with Scripture, remember, even as we looked
at the sons of Noah, they're not always listed based on their birth order, right?
Again, the focus of Scripture here in Genesis chapter 11 and going forward is going to zoom
in upon who?
Upon Abram.
And so Abram is listed first, it does not necessarily mean he is the oldest, however,
and as you look at the Scripture, skip down to verse number 32, we're going to get back
to verses 27 through 31 in just a moment, but look at verse number 32, the Bible says
in the days of Terah were 205 years, and notice this, Terah died where?
In Haran.
Now we know, and we'll study in just a moment, how they were to go from the Ur of the Chaldees
to Canaan, but they went the route that they would go, or that they traveled, they found
themselves in Haran.
And it says that Terah was 205 years old.
Now hold your thought, there is 205, right?
So in chapter number 12, this will be the focus of our study next week in our next lesson,
but if you look in verse number 4, the Bible says, so Abram departed as the Lord had spoken
unto him, and Lot went with him, and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed
out of Haran.
So therefore, if Abram was 75 when he left Haran, and Terah was 70 when Abram was born,
then how old was Terah when Abram left?
It would be 145, right, does that add up?
75 when he left to go to Haran, and his dad was 70 when he was born, 70 and 75, 145, amen,
I do the math right?
They say you should never do math publicly, you can embarrass yourself.
So I did it privately in my office before I said it publicly in this setting.
However, you notice that Terah died in Haran, he wasn't 145, he was 205.
So that's a difference of 60 years.
So it is possible, from the perspective of some that would take the position, that Abram
and Nahor in Haran were triplets, that Abram left and his dad Terah was alive in Haran
when he left to go to Canaan.
However, go over to Acts chapter number 7.
Notice what is said here in Acts chapter number 7, and I'm really sharing this with you not
to say that my position or my interpretation is right, versus what somebody else might
say.
Really, the idea of why I'm trying to share this with you is because we need to study
the Bible, amen?
And we dig into the Word of God, and we don't just take what some commentary says or what
some scholar says.
Let's dig into the Word of God and let's see what God's Word says.
In Acts chapter number 7, Stephen is going to preach a message.
And at the end of Acts chapter number 7, Stephen is going to be stoned because of the message
he preached.
I'm happy I've not been stoned yet for any messages that I've preached, amen?
But we find that here as he begins the message, notice in verse number 2, and he said,
Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken.
The God of glory appeared unto who?
Our father Abraham.
So now we're going to once again see why the significance of the Scriptures in Genesis
11 zoom in on Abram, who will become Abraham because of the lineage of Christ, the Messianic
line.
So we find that it says, When he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Haran, Mesopotamia, that
would be the Ur of the Chaldeans, that's where he was, before he would go to Haran, follow
verse 3, and said unto him, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred, and come
into the land which I shall show thee.
Then came he out of the land of the Chaldeans and dwelt in Haran.
And from thence, what does it say?
When his father was dead, he removed him into this land wherein ye now dwell.
So it says in Acts 7, as Stephen is preaching this message, that Abraham didn't go to the
land in which you now dwell, speaking of Canaan, that would be what he's speaking of, until
the death of his father.
So when did his dad die?
According to Genesis 11, he died when he was 205 years old, right?
Genesis 11, in verse number 32, if that's the right verse, let me just get there quickly,
in verse number 32, In the days of Terah were 205 years, and Terah died, where?
In Haran.
And so if he was 205 years old when he died in Haran, and Abraham is 75, according to
Genesis 12, in verse number 4, when he left...
from Haran to go to Canaan,
then that would mean that Terah
was 130 years old when Abraham was born.
Now, I'm not trying to cause any confusion.
I'm just trying to help us understand
how awesome this book is.
And how you dig into the Word of God
and you study it and you see the references
and you go back and forth.
Some scholar might come and say,
well, we did this, that, and the other,
and this is the deal, and so on and so forth.
But we find here that the Scriptures
are quite clear as Stephen is preaching.
And by the way, it was not that Stephen was preaching
and it was just his thoughts.
He's preaching and it's recorded in Scripture
and all Scripture is given by inspiration of God.
And so we find here that if that,
as we look at this passage and we see
as we compare Scripture with Scripture,
then we would not have the approach
or the interpretation that Abraham, Nahor, and Haran
were triplets, but rather that Abraham was born
when Terah was 130 years old,
and that would make Abram's birth
at 352 years after the flood.
Now, I say all of that to say this.
At the end of Genesis 9, the Bible tells us
that Noah lived after the flood 350 years
in verse number 28.
And so we find that the proximity in time
between the death of Noah and the birth of Abraham
is super close, just a couple of years.
As you take and you add all of those years up,
and we find that, again, the focus of Scripture,
we read nothing of the last 350 years of Noah's life.
But we'll begin to zoom in here in Genesis chapter 11
and focus upon Abraham and his descendants
and we see how that eventually we will get to the place
in which we are dealing with the truth
of the Messianic line and its prominence in Scripture.
Why?
Because Jesus is the main theme of the Bible, right?
It's about the Messiah.
Someone said this, William Scroggie wrote a book
many years ago, a scholar of yesteryear,
and he titled his book The Unfolding Drama of Redemption.
And it is a very lengthy book, but it is a very good book
and very insightful into his approach
as he would look at the Scriptures
and how the Old Testament is leading to
and prophesying with regard to the coming of the Messiah
and looking at all of those wonderful prophecies.
And indeed, Jesus is the theme
and we find that redemption is the story.
Now, as we focus in, we're going to get here,
we looked at the generations of Shem,
the generations of Terah.
Let's dig in and look here at an introduction to Abram.
In verses 27 through 32,
we learn a lot of things about Abraham.
I'm probably gonna use the word Abraham
more than I'll use Abram, bear with me.
I know that his name hasn't changed yet,
but we so often refer to him as Abraham.
The Bible says this, notice several things that we learn.
Of course, number one, we learned
that he is the son of Terah.
In verse number 27, the Bible says,
now these are the generations of Terah.
Terah begat Abram, Nahor and Haran.
And notice it says that Haran begat Lot.
So God gives us some insight here in Genesis chapter 11
to the fact that Abram would be the uncle to Lot.
Now remember, that's gonna come back later, right?
We're going to begin to read later on
in the book of Genesis.
We'll read of the introductions and the interactions
between Abraham and Lot, and of course, Sodom and Gomorrah,
and all of those things that unfold.
And we're given the truth here
as we have this introduction to Abram,
that he is the uncle to Lot.
We notice, as we continue to read in verse number 28,
the Bible says that Haran died before his father, Terah,
in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.
And so before they left Ur of the Chaldees, Haran died.
It's interesting as we find here in verse number 28,
as we begin to get, again, more introduction to Abram
and learn more about his life,
that he is from the Ur of the Chaldees.
Of course, we found that Stephen
would reference about Mesopotamia.
It's interesting as you think about the Ur of the Chaldees
and really just some of the things about this place.
It was a very interesting location,
very important place within the Babylonian kingdom,
if you will, not quite as the Babylonian kingdom yet,
but we find that it was really
at the mouth of the Euphrates River.
And so obviously, in a strategic location,
they would gather there for that reason
because of the life that would be able to be produced
and kept alive because of water and so on and so forth.
And so you find that they're at the mouth
of the Euphrates River.
The Ur of the Chaldees, Ur,
it was known as being a very wealthy place.
It was known as being a very sophisticated society.
In fact, there have been excavations
that have taken place over the years
and have revealed a great library
with thousands of clay tablets.
And so you can see about how advanced this society was
in the Ur of the Chaldees that they were sophisticated.
It was a large city.
There were a lot of people there.
And there are many that would attack the Bible,
of course, again, to deal with the attacks
I mentioned by way of introduction
that really the first 11 chapters of the book of Genesis
are under regular attack.
And there are many that would attack the genealogies
and the birth rates and the fact
that they couldn't have many people.
But the reality is that God blessed them and God multiplied.
God told them be fruitful and multiply and God blessed.
And we see that the society was a populated society.
And even there in the Ur of the Chaldees,
I mean, you think if they were able to do excavation
and reveal thousands of clay tablets,
I mean, this was a sophisticated place.
We find that it was a place
in which they worshiped the moon God.
It was a place of idolatry.
Notice, hold your place here in Genesis
in front of the book of Joshua in chapter number 24,
if you will, I want you to notice what Joshua says
to the people in his closing challenge.
During this pandemic, we spent 52 lessons,
I think it was, studying through the book of Genesis.
Through the book of Joshua, is that what it was?
52 lessons, I think is what it was.
We had Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday lessons
through the book of Joshua.
And I believe we ended at 52 lessons.
And one of those last couple of lessons dealt
with the message that Joshua delivered to the people.
Notice in Joshua 24 in verse one, it says,
"'Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem
"'and called for the elders of Israel and for their heads
"'and for their judges and for their officers.
"'And they presented themselves before God.'"
Notice verse two.
"'And Joshua said unto all the people,
"'Thus saith the Lord God of Israel,
"'your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood
"'in old time, even Terah, the father of Abraham
"'and the father of Nacor, and they served other gods.'"
We see that as we look in Genesis chapter 11,
that reference specifically isn't given to us
as we study history and other folks,
Josephus and others that have given us historical records
of these folks here in the Ur of the Chaldees,
we would understand that one of their highest deities,
if you will, their greatest idols was the fact
that they worshiped the moon god.
Notice as we continue learning more about Abraham,
the Bible tells us in verse number 29,
"'And Abram and Nahor took them wives.
"'The name of Abram's wife was Sarai.'"
Of course, her name will become Sarah.
The Bible says, "'The name of Nahor's wife, Milcah,
"'the daughter of Haram, the father of Milcah,
"'and the father of Iscah.'"
And there's given insight to us there in verse number 29.
It's interesting, not much information
immediately is given here.
Again, the main emphasis is a trace that of Abram,
but we will see how that this will come back
in later chapters over in chapter 20 and 22
with regard to the descendants of these relatives as well.
Notice an important truth that is given.
We say we know this truth because we're familiar
with what takes place through the book of Genesis,
but you notice in verse 30, the Bible says,
"'But Sarai was barren, she had no child.'"
That will become a significant truth
throughout the next several chapters
of the book of Genesis, will it not?
We find that here, again, by way of introduction
into this man, Abram's life, we are told
that he has a wife named Sarai, but she is barren,
she has no children.
Of course, we know that God miraculously provides, amen,
after a period of not having children
and of course, hearing the promise,
Sarah decides that Abram should go,
Abraham should go with Hagar and Ishmael is born,
but that was not God's plan.
God said, I'm gonna give you a son, Abraham and Sarah.
And of course, we read in future chapters
about the wonderful birth of Isaac.
What a blessing, what a great truth of the Word of God.
And we find that as we study through the pages of Scripture
and we find these truths and we understand
that Sarah in chapter 19, excuse me, chapter 18,
as she would laugh at what she heard
and we find that we eventually get to that place
where Isaac is born and then of course,
God would tell him to offer Isaac
and you go through all of those things
and you see how.
that here in chapter number 12, again, the focus, chapter 11, excuse me,
the focus is coming in on to Abram
and how these simple truths that are given quickly,
how that they're so impactful to the next events
that we that we will study through the book of Genesis.
Verse number 31.
And Tara took Abram, his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his son's son.
So his grandson.
And Sarai, his daughter in law and his son, Abram's wife.
Notice this in verse 31.
And they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees
to go into the land of Canaan.
And they came to Haran and dwelt there.
It's interesting if you were to take and understand
the geography of what's taking place on this journey.
The truth of the matter is that from the Ur of the Chaldees to get to Canaan,
it would simply be a message such as this.
Go west, young man, go west.
I mean, simply. Right.
It's almost due west.
But there is a problem.
What's due west is the Arabian desert.
Not a very easy trek to travel.
And of course, with the animals and all that they would do,
all they would take with them, it become extremely difficult.
And so we find that what they did.
Remember, we mentioned that Ur of the Chaldees is at the mouth of the Euphrates
River, and so primarily their track on their travels
took them northwesterly as they would go towards
and follow really trace the Euphrates River.
And of course, we know this.
And of course, as you study geography historically now with,
you know, irrigation and so many things that have happened
throughout the centuries and of course, irrigation is not necessarily new,
but we find so many things that have happened over the centuries.
But in this particular time period, you need to be close to water.
Water is is is certainly necessary for life.
And we understand that God designed things that way.
And so we find that they would trace, if you will,
that route and travel northwesterly
along the Euphrates River and they would come to Iran.
You see that in verse number thirty one.
It says that they were to go from the Ur of the Chaldees
to go into the land of Canaan, and they came onto Iran and dwelt there.
Many people have questions with regard to why it was that they dwelt there.
There is a potential reason given to us in verse thirty two,
and it says that the days of Tara were two hundred and five years
and Tara died in Iran.
It would seem that perhaps his health was not good enough
to continue on the journey because now they have
essentially they've made a triangle, right?
They've left Ur of the Chaldees.
They've traveled northwesterly and they're up here in Iran.
But then they got to travel southwesterly to get down to Canaan.
And so instead of being able to travel across the Arabian Desert,
which would have proven to be very difficult, we find they take that path
and they come to Iran and we find that Tara, Abram's father
would die in Iran.
We come into chapter number twelve.
We'll study it next week and we'll deal with how God then speaks to him again,
to Abraham again with regard to leaving and so on and so forth.
And we find that as we come to the close of chapter eleven,
I want you to think about the significant events
that God has covered in eleven chapters.
I want you to think about the fact that he covered
all of the truth with regard to creation.
Right. We find that not only did he provide for us the the truth of creation
without how he made all that he made and how he spoke it into existence.
And one of my favorite statements throughout studying the truth of creation
is how that we look at the stars and their vast numbers
and we stand in amazement.
And yet the scriptures simply say he made the stars also.
It's amazing.
We stand in awe of his creation.
Of course, the crowning moment of his creation is in day six
when he created man.
We read the latter part of Genesis one and we read Genesis chapter number two
and we see about his interactions with man
and where he put man in the garden,
the responsibility that was given and so on and so forth.
And we come to the end of chapter number two
and we read specifically how God said that it wasn't good for man to be alone.
And he speaks about the way in which he brought Eve to him, Adam.
And then we read of the tragedy in chapter number three.
Sin entered into the world.
The serpent comes in great subtlety.
Yea, hath God said, you shall not surely die.
We see that sin entered into the world.
Of course, the judgment is announced as God goes into the into the garden
and Adam and Eve are hiding themselves.
He calls for them.
We find that he provides that covering of skin.
The sacrifice that would be made.
We see the passage continue and begin to read about the beginning of civilization
in chapter four, and we read of that first murder
and the situation with Cain and Abel and all that takes place.
And you go through and eventually you get to chapter number six
and you see how that civilization has marched forward
and the population has grown immensely.
And you come to the place where God says that he sees the wickedness
of his creation of mankind and that he's going to destroy him.
And it's amazing in chapter number six, how that you read the last statement
of verse number 13, where God says to Noah, I will destroy them with the earth.
And you read the first statement in verse number 14, where he says,
make me an ark of gopher wood, how that God would provide refuge
even through that judgment.
But safety was only in one place, was in the ark, was in the ark.
Noah faithfully followed the direction of God.
Noah faithfully preached.
He was a preacher of righteousness, according to the New Testament.
And we find that he faithfully preached the word of God.
No one listened.
Noah, his wife, his three sons and their wives
were the only human beings to enter that ark.
The Bible tells us that God shut them in.
And they were safe in the ark.
We made the connection, the New Testament truth that we are in Christ.
And what a blessing to know that as people that have been born again,
save that we are in Christ saints.
What a joy, what a blessing to understand that he is our refuge.
We read of the flood and we read of how God caused the great wind to pass
and the waters to assuage, and we read how that God gave the instruction
for them to come off of the ark.
And they did and they worshiped, they gave offerings and sacrificed.
He built an altar unto the Lord and offered burnt offerings on the altar,
according to chapter eight and verse 20.
We read of the Noahic covenant.
We read of these descendants and generations,
and we read of the Tower of Babel, and now we come to the life of Abraham.
And it's amazing that in 11 chapters, all of that information could be given.
And we know, as I mentioned often, as we studied those chapters
and studied about creation, that God knows exactly how he created everything.
And he could have given us volumes upon volumes of great detail
with every single thing that he did.
In the beginning, God created, right?
I mean, it just he made the stars also.
Well, I want to dig into that. How did he do that?
What did he do? How did he just he made the stars also?
And we find that as we are mindful of the truth of God's Word,
that the crowning moment of creation, as I mentioned in Genesis,
is the creation of mankind.
And from that point forward, especially as you look at the truth of Genesis 3
with the fall of man, the theme of the Bible becomes redemption of his creation.
And we find that as God would send forth his Son, the Messiah,
he would come through a promised line.
And therefore, we focus in upon Abram, Abraham.
What was it that Stephen said in that message?
As he begins to speak to those Jewish leaders
that had questioned all that was going on, he says to them in the very beginning,
men, he says, men, brethren and fathers, hearken.
The God of glory appeared unto our father, Abraham.
We mentioned even as we've studied the book of Hebrews,
how that Christ is better than Abraham, right?
He's superior to than Abraham.
In fact, he said in John, before Abraham was, I am.
Amen. In John 8 and 58.
And we find that as you look in the book of Hebrews
and we've mentioned Christ is better, he's superior than the angels,
the prophets, than Moses, than Abraham.
The Jewish people held Abraham, continue to hold Abraham in very high regard.
And rightly so.
And so we find that the scriptures take these 11 chapters
to give us exactly what God wants us to have.
to go through all of these things that are taking place,
all of these other descendants,
all of these other people groups,
and focus specifically upon Abram
and upon his descendants.
Why?
Because of the lineage,
because of the truth of the Messiah that would come.
And I'm so thankful that from this point forward,
as we begin to, or continue to study
through the book of Genesis
and really get the whole of scripture
and see how the descendants of Abraham
come in full focus
and how that it leads us to the wonderful truths
that God has given us with regard
to the seed of Abraham, Galatians.
He didn't say seeds, as in many,
he said seed, right?
Speaking of Christ.
And what a wonderful blessing.
The book of Genesis is so important.
It's under continued scrutiny.
In fact, I read an article on Friday
where they've decided again
that they've recalculated and determined
the actual age of the earth.
The problem was there are two groups of people
that were doing the study
and they came up with numbers
that were about almost a full billion years apart.
I said a billion years is kind of a long time.
But I guess when you're talking about 15 billion
or 14 billion, it really kind of, you know, whatever.
But the reality is that we have a record
that is trustworthy.
And God has given us His word
and His word is powerful, it's helpful,
it's profitable, right?
That's what the word of God says of itself.
And so as we study the word of God
and we see here this evening,
yes, the generations of Shem, the generations of Terah,
we get this introduction to Abram
and we find in full focus this Father Abraham
as he's often referred to as,
where Messiah will come from that line.
Let's pray.
Father, we love You, we thank You for loving us.
Thank You for the opportunity tonight to study Thy word.
Certainly a little different type of a passage
and different type of message tonight.
I pray that it's been helpful to strengthen our faith,
to help us to understand that Your word is trustworthy,
to help us to understand this evening
that as we go through the Scriptures
and we compare Scripture with Scripture
and we study Thy word,
that we can be able to stand upon the truth of Your word,
that we do not have to be easily persuaded
by those within our society
that would constantly seek to attack Thy word
and especially these first 11 chapters of Genesis
which are so foundational.
I pray, God, that You'd help us
to have our faith strengthened.
I pray that as we watch this video here
in just a few moments,
help us to be challenged by the work
that's taking place in Greenland
and the opportunity to participate
in what You're doing on that field.
As we have a time of invitation,
we pray that You'd work in hearts and lives
and we'll thank You for it.
In Christ's name we pray.
Would You stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
We will have a moment of invitation.